25/7

7: Trust and Openness
5: Freedom and Discipline
2: Cooperation and Balance
Understanding Life Purpose

Those on the 25/7 life path are here to work through issues of
privacy, openness, and independence, finally coming to trust spiritual
forces operating through themselves, others, and the world, and to
experience inner freedom through a focused discipline. Trusting self
and others, along with discipline and focus, are primary life issues
for 25/7s, and the quality of their life depends, in large part, on
whether they work these areas in positive or negative ways. Because
our life purpose rarely comes easily, 25/7s tend toward varying
degrees of paranoia; they may begin relationships with an almost naive
trust and faith and set themselves up for broken trust, betrayal, or
misunderstanding later on.

Most 25/7s need a great deal of privacy and sense of independence. Due
to subtle fears of being shamed or betrayed, they tend to draw back
"inside themselves" emotionally; they don't feel safe enough to let
people see their private thoughts or feelings. Some 25/7s have become
hurt, bitter, or paranoid and first look out for "number one"; feeling
isolated emotionally or even physically, like the classic mountain
hermit, they may seek "Spirit" but avoid intimate human relationships.

Because of their world-class thinking abilities, 25/7s can find
external success, but their life purpose centers more around inner
processing than worldly pursuits. Most individuals on the 25/7 life
path are involved with work, relationships, family, travel, and any
number of ordinary activities in daily life.

Nearly all 25/7s have an appealing lightness and clarity about them;
whether or not they are aware of it, they have a c1ose association
with the subtle energies some people call angels. Even though they may
prefer scientific to spiritual models of reality, most 25/7s feel
drawn to a sense of beauty and harmony that borders on the mystical.

Something more resides beneath the surface of their life, however,
something inside their skin, their heart, and the cells of their body,
a kind of longing, perhaps still subconscious, a desire to feel that
this is home.

The interaction of 2, 5, and 7 gives rise to internal conflicts that
send 25/7s on a quest for healing and illumination. These individuals
don't necessarily need healing on a physical level; their drive is to
heal internal divisions and find the focus, meaning, and purpose they
seek.

Most 25/7s have a refined appearance and certain childlike
qualities. Children tend to like them because they can play like
children. Whether male or female, they have a Peter Pan-like quality;
caught between the Never Neverland and Earth, they aren't sure where
they belong. They enjoy scenic beauty and find it easier to commune
with spirits of nature than with the denizens of the urban world. They
like computers and computer art, computer games, scholarly research,
reading, and travel in the sea or the sky; they search for worlds of
beauty and adventure, where the politics and deceptions of the human
world are left behind, or at least held at bay.

Most 25/7s feel caught in a double bind: Not usually trusting of
others enough to share their inner feelings, they have few real
intimacies; tending to isolate themselves and needing substantial
private, independent time, they take pains to protect themselves from
a social world that seems, deep inside their subconscious, somehow
threatening. Yet they have a desire to help others, to make a
difference, to contribute in some way. Like a puppy who slowly
approaches a stranger, only to draw back, then approach, then draw
back, some 25/7s take a risk and try to establish contact, perhaps
through sharing an interest or in structured group settings. Other
25/7s who have felt betrayed draw back into their own independent,
uncomplicated, but sometimes lonely world.

With the 2 influence, 25/7s seek internal harmony between conflicting
values or ideas; in relationships with others, they seek balance
between giving and receiving, and they like to draw clear boundaries
around their "space." The 5 energy creates lessons for 25/7s in the
realm of freedom and independence and the discipline necessary to
achieve it.

As 25/7s mature through the lessons of their life, they open to deeper
levels of self-trust through their own direct experience. Ultimately,
even if 25/7s have an interest in spiritual practices or ideas, they
don't just want to read about mystical experiences in a book; they
want a direct experience of oneness. When they are living in alignment
with the Law of Faith (p. 369), they make contact with the deeper
purpose in all that arises. If some people lie to them, cheat them, or
betray them in any other form, they may not choose to associate with
these people again, but they remain steadfast in their trust of "the
universal teacher" working through these experiences, and they feel
gratitude to Spirit for the lessons.

When 25/7s find internal freedom from conflict, they can then focus on
a form of service the way Zen archers focus on their archery
practiceâ€”as a means of transformation and inner awareness. Until they
find their focus, however, they tend to remain eternal seekers and
spiritual vagabonds, disassociated rather than free, trusting everyone
but themselves, searching everywhere but where they stand, trusting
only the mind as a repository of information.

Most 25/7s tend toward paranoia. When they feel safe enough to put
aside their mental shields and trust self and trust Spirit, they feel
the communion they have known from birth but had forgotten; they feel
a direct experience of oneness. When 25/7s finally feel Spirit inside,
they find Spirit everywhere, in everyone and everything.

Working 25/7 in the Positive

The life of these individuals may or may not appear spiritual or
include spiritual practices or inner work. But no matter what field
they engage in, these 25/7s are a source of often deep understanding
because they look inside to find whatever they need to know. They also
learn from others, but they respect their own internal feelings and
messages. They are adventurers who bring to light the freedom within;
living the liberated life, feeling comfortable and at home almost
anywhere, they find satisfaction sharing the truths that experience
has taught them. Embodying inner freedom, touched by a sense of
oneness, peace, and inner harmony, they go out and touch others. They
are grateful for all experiences, because these25/7s see Spirit
everywhere.

Working 25/7 in the Negative

Preferring solitude, these isolated individuals avoid people because
they don't feel others can be trusted. Aimless seekers of experience,
avid readers, or spiritual tramps, they constantly look for the book,
training, or teacher who can help them be whole or give them the
conclusive understanding they want with their mind. Nevertheless, they
don't find what they are seeking, because they are searching outside
themselves. They're among the paranoids of the world; they assume
they're going to be left out, and to the degree they act like a
recluse, they do get left out.

Life-Path Issues

Health

The health of most 25/7s depends upon the relative clarity of each
number: In the positive, 2 brings strength; 5 brings an expansive
sense of freedom; and 7 brings a discriminating mind that follows
sound health practices. In the negative, however, 2 means 25/7s get
drained and stressed from thinking too much, resulting in possible
allergies; 5 means they feel scattered, dependent, and resentful,
which compromises the adrenals and nervous system; and 7 means they
are sensitive to feelings of betrayal and constricted around the heart
area.

For 25/7s, few activities are as healing as drifting down a river,
canoeing across a lake, or hiking through the woods. Coupled with
meditation and open feelings, these activities work as a positive
tonic and rejuvenator.

Most 25/7s need grounding; they need to "come down to Earth." Physical
exercise, martial arts, and any positive physical experience help to
ground them, as does self-trust.

Aesthetic forms of healing that focus on the mind, such as
visualization, working with light and color, flower essences, and art,
are all useful for 25/7s. Like all 7s, 25/7s need to apply regular
discipline and not get so involved with the mind that they forget they
have a body that requires care.

Relationships

Most 25/7s have clear-cut issues that make sharing their feelings and
revealing their vulnerability especially challenging but certainly
possible. They experience fears and pain of betrayal, real or
imagined, in their hearts; so they trust their mind and think their
way through emotions, which cuts them off from a sense of connection
with others.

Those working 25/7 keep to themselves a great deal, desiring a high
degree of privacy and independence, but they still seek to remain
connected to their partner, requiring a delicate balance. Most 25/7s
seek harmony, balance, and completeness through joining with a partner
because they don't feel the harmony and completeness in themselves. To
bring more life into a relationship, they do well to practice whatever
inner work they choose to enhance their own sense of self-reliance and
wholeness. When they come to trust self and God, they open to
relationship. Sexually, 25/7s' deepest satisfaction comes as they
emerge from the "cave of the mind" and trust enough to remove their
mental armor and bring emotion into the bedroom,

Talents, Work, and Finances

No matter what their chosen occupation, 25/7s can use their incisive
mind in service and support of others. Most 25/7s work well in
writing, acting, research, or high-tech fields; they excel as secret
service agents, chemists, surgeons, lawyers, and
choreographers. Clearly, 25/7s are well suited to any work that
requires exceptionally deft thinking ability and skillful hands,
especially if that work allows some quiet space. Insightful and
private, 25/7s make excellent researchers, scholars, physics
professors, and computer whizzes. The 5 energy colors their life path
because 5s take in many things, while 7 creates an artistic pattern,
seeking rhythm and harmony. Therefore, 25/7s have a strong aesthetic
nature, and they are equally at home sitting by a computer or walking
along a windblown beach.

These world-class thinkers can do very well financially through a
variety of means. Financial lack is usually linked to a lack of
self-trust, to the scatteredness of 5, or to spending more than they
earn in the quest for experience. But when working their energies in
positive ways, 25/7s have minds that can do whatever they want and
spirits that are there to serve and even, in some cases, to help
liberate others.

Some Weil-Known 25/7s

Bella Abzug                    Carrie Fisher

Arthur Ashe                   Mel Gibson

Joan Baez                      Woody Guthrie

Helen Gurley Brown       J. Edgar Hoover

William F. Buckley, Jr.    Marilyn Monroe

Sir Richard Burton          Gertrude Stein

Eric Clapton                   James Stewart

Keys to Fulfilling Your Destiny

If you are working 25/7, this section can help you manifest your life
purpose by focusing your attention on core issues and by generating
specific action to transform key areas of your life.

Guidelines and Recommendations

Trust your instincts and intuition; you are the expert on your body
and your life.

Remember each day to take at least one deep breath and, as you do so,
feel as if you are breathing in Spirit.

Enjoy experience, but focus on relationship.

Make clear agreements with people to avoid possible misunderstandings.

Useful Questions

1.    Reflect on the following questions:

Â· How can I make the shift from reliance on outside experts and ideas
  to trusting my own intuitive body wisdom?

Â· To avoid misunderstandings, can I share my real feelings and needs
  in a given situation?

Â· Do I feel safe with people, or do I hide behind a mental shield?

Â· What hidden assumptions about trust can I reexamine?

2.  If these questions generate any insights, how might you put these
insights into practice?

Deepening Your Understanding

1.  Turn to Part Two and reread the main sections covering the digits
that make up your birth number: 2 (p. 38), 5 (p. 61), and 7(p. 78).

2.  You may wish to review birth numbers of family and friends and, if
they are open to it, discuss similar or different issues in your
lives.

Spiritual Laws: The Leverage to Change Your Life

1.    Read about each of the following laws in Part Four:

Â· The Law of Faith (p. 369): Only when we find faith in ourselves can we have faith in others.

Â· The Law of Discipline (p. 354): Discipline brings the focus and depth of experience that leads to inner freedom.

Â· The Law of Expectations (p. 373): Our life unfolds according to our hidden expectations and assumptions.

Â· The Law of Process (p. 346)" By taking one small step at a time, we com" to trust the process of our life.

Â· The Law of Responsibility (p. 336): To enjoy service, we need to know when to say yes and how to say no.

2.    Do the exercises you find for each of these laws.

3.    Consider how you might apply each law to your life.
