41/5 & 14/5

5: Freedom and Discipline
1: Creativity and Confidence
4: Stability and Process

Understanding Life Purpose

Those on the 41/5 or 14/5 life path are here to work through issues
related to independence, stability, and creative energy, finally
achieving freedom by surrendering to the discipline of a step-by-step
process toward chosen goals. Because the mountain path to the
fulfillment of our life purpose entails tests and challenges, most
41/5s and 14/5s find a sense of authentic inner and outer freedom only
after finding out what freedom isn't; they have tendencies to become
dependent on others, then strive for almost aggressive
independence. Balancing this tendency with healthy forms of
self-reliance, interdependence, and cooperation, these individuals
experience freedom only through discipline and focus, taking life one
step at a time. It may take a while for them to come to this
realization.

While 41/5s and 14/5s share the same drives for freedom, independence,
and mastery of experience associated with other 5s, they find this
freedom through distinctly different avenues, issues, and challenges
due to the influence of 1 and 4 energies.

All issues of 5 energy apply for 41/5s and 14/5s, but these are
moderated and balanced by 4 and amplified by the creative drives of
1. Because of the influence of 4, people on both of these life paths
often get scattered and go off half-cocked. They also have a strong
family orientation, and, in the positive, have more stable
energy. Combining a quick mind with creativity, they're here to show
people new approaches to life.

Not only do 41/5s and 14/5s differ somewhat from other 5s, they also
differ slightly from one another due to the relative nature and order
of 4 and 1. Both 41/5s and 14/5s have significant creative energy to
be released and channeled positively, especially 41/5s. Both life
paths also share 4 energy, dealing with the need to follow a
step-by-step process to achieve security.

Since 5s, in general, find freedom through discipline, focus, and
setting priorities, the energies of 1 and 4 can either significantly
support or sabotage the quest for inner and outer freedom.

Most 14/5s have an especially strong analytical mind, but they also
display a tendency toward confusion and mental stress due to
overanalysis. Most 41/5s demonstrate abundant creative energy, but if
that energy is obstructed, they, more than 14/5s, may discharge the
excess energy through abuse of food, alcohol, tobacco, or other drugs,
especially psychedelics. But both of these life paths share the same
strengths and potential challenges, in slightly differing degrees,
just as they share scatteredness, or trying to create too much all at
once.

In the most positive sense, creative energy adds extra sparkle and
"juice" to the charm and quick mindedness that characterize 41/5s and
14/5s. It also brings a degree of insecurity, especially for 41/5s,
and adds a need for innovation and variety, making focus and
discipline more difficult. Since 5s already tend to bounce from one
thing to another, the influence of 1 has the effect of pouring
gasoline on fire.

The movement, evolution, and achievement for 41/5s or 14/5s must be
founded on a strong foundation of preparation. Having a stable base,
such as committing to a home or family, actually teaches 41/5s and
14/5s more about inner freedom than traveling around the world and
having as many experiences as possible. Most likely, 41/5s and 14/5s
come to experience bothâ€”physically or in their vivid imagination.

The influence of 4 adds needed strength and stability, analytical
ability, and grounding to the expansive curiosity and explorative
tendencies of 5 energy. However, in its less mature form, especially
for 14/5s, 4 entails a resistance to any regular or diligent
step-by-step process and often leads to impatience, the last thing 5s
need.

In both cases, 1 and especially 4 affect the drive for freedom and
independence and add significant challenges. As with those working
other birth numbers, to bring their primary purpose or destiny to
fruition, 41/5s and 14/5s have to climb a steep path, fighting their
own dragons as they go, strengthening themselves on the journey.

An example of the mix of magic and chaos that can happen with the
dynamic combination of 1,4, and 5, is the late Thomas Wolfe, 14/5
author of Look Homeward Angel, who delivered his brilliant, sprawling
handwritten manuscripts to his editor with the many reams of paper,
pages out of order, stuffed into four or five apple crates! Yet many
recognize him as one of America's foremost writers.

Working 41/5 or 14/5 in the Positive

Brilliant at structuring and synthesizing, these individuals can use
razor-sharp analysis to determine what they need and then follow the
steps necessary to achieve their goal. They maintain a balanced body
through regular exercise and disciplined diet. Their highly visual
imagination, brimming with creativity, is supported by an ability to
follow patiently whatever process is necessary to bring their internal
images into practical reality. Strong and inspiring, they display a
broad grasp of many areas of life, and their outgoing nature makes
them enjoyable company.

Working 41/5 or 14/5 in the Negative

Hampered by confusion and insecurity, these individuals accomplish
little; they get stuck obsessively on one step, or they impulsively
drive ahead, skipping steps, so it's halfway to the goal, then back to
the drawing board. They feel torn between their desire for security
and their need to take risks and explore the unknown. Uncommitted and
unstable, they want freedom right now, without applying the discipline
or following the step-by-step process to get it. Without a foundation
to stand on, they waver and wobble, hoping and wishing, doing many
things, but without real effect.

Life-Path Issues

Health

Individuals working 41/5 or 14/5 tend to race around due to their
vitality, energy, and thirst for many experiences. When they act
impulsively or overextend themselves in a quest for adventure, they
may end up with broken bones. If their creative energy is blocked,
14/5s and especially 41/5s may experience problems in the abdomen,
lower back, or reproductive areas.

Meditation is extremely useful for both 14/5s and 41/5s to help calm
their mind, which tends to run in circles. Inspiring music also has a
balancing, calming effect. The nervous system of 41/5s and 14/5s needs
loving care. Generally sturdier and more resilient than 32/5s and
23/5s, they are nevertheless more prone to mental stress.

Both 41/5s and 14/5s benefit from paying attention to regular, stable
eating habits, since they have a tendency to skip meals or eat on the
run. They tend to prefer a variety of interesting foods, but they
require no special dietary guidelines beyond that. If they overeat,
they need to explore how their creative energy istlocked and take
appropriate steps to express this energy or release it' through
balanced exercise.

They thrive on a variety of exercise and may gravitate toward exciting
competitive games that take quickness and strength but allow for
creativity. They may also enjoy swimming, skin-diving, and other water
sports, which have a soothing effect on their nervous system.

Relationships

While they experience a pull toward family and stability, less
grounded 41/5s and 14/5s have an equal and opposite pull toward a
variety of experience and lack of commitment. With so many things to
do, they can have trouble settling down, even though the image of a
stable home life appeals to them. Insecurity associated with 1 energy
breeds a self-protective, competitive nature, which can also be a
factor in relationships. But overall, these individuals display a
dynamic energy that is very attractive, and the" only factor limiting
their relationships is inside them, at the level of commitment.

They definitely need and value robust, even rambunctious sexual
expression, unless insecurity gets in the way; even if insecurity
holds them back for a while, eventually they come to express their
full sexual drive.

Talents, Work, and Finances

Strength, creativity, and quick mindedness bring 41/5s and 14/5s
success in fields that allow both stability and adventure, such as
international trade. Any form of creativity or business that demands
rapid analysis challenges and satisfies these individuals. They prefer
active rather than sedentary work, but writing can also satisfy their
restless minds. Clear, creative, dramatic storytellers, they make
exceptional writers, but they don't usually want to sit still that
long (14/5 Thomas Wolfe used to write standing up, using his
refrigerator top as his desk).

Creative visionaries who can see trends before others notice them, if
41/5s and 14/5s do their homework, keep their ideas practical, and
have the patience to go through the necessary step-by-step process to
complete what they start, they create money as easily as ideas.

